soon we were back at a point where the
line had been in the water for several
hours and there the Tunney had been
hanging on the hook for some
considerable time this was grizzly proof
that there were many shark around and an
unpleasant reminder of what they can do
not only to other fish but to a man
the remains of a magnificent sailfin
Marlin that had been given the same
treatment by the Sharks well at least it
showed that there were plenty of shark
around
and then at last we cited the fin that
we had been looking for this was a big
one and he was hooked
we were not fishing for sport the main
thing was not to lose the shark and the
skipper had his own method of making
sure that we didn't
this was the first of five big sharks
that we caught that day all of which
were due to be taken back to the
laboratories to be identified measured
detected and to have the contents of
their stomachs examined as part of the
marine laboratories detailed research
program but to see the most exciting and
famous fish that the Madagascar Research
Institute has ever handled we had to go
to their main laboratories in the
capital Tanana reef and there I was
privileged to see one of the most
remarkable creatures in the world the
coelacanth until 1938 scientists only
knew the coelacanth from fossils and
they believed that it had become extinct
over 60 million years ago then one alive
and snapping turned up in the trawl of a
boat fishing off South Africa it was a
scientific sensation of the century but
infuriatingly its internal parts had
been destroyed in spite of an intensive
search it was not until 1952 that
another was found in the Chamorro
islands just off the coast of Madagascar
it turned out that the kamorin fishermen
caught one or two each year but they
didn't value them highly their flesh
wasn't particularly tasty they said and
only their huge rough scales were useful
excellent for rubbing down the inner
tubes of bicycles before mending a
puncture but of the scientists the
coelacanth was a paramount interest but
it seems certain that fish very like it
were the creatures from which the whole
of the amphibians reptiles mammals and
indeed man himself are ultimately
descended every detail of its Anatomy
therefore is of absorbing interest its
fins have long fleshy lobes at their
base which make them quite unlike the
fins of any other living fish and there
seems little doubt that these represent
the first rudimentary legs which enable
the ancestral amphibians to drag
themselves from the water and begin the
colonization of the dry land a process
that the recently evolved little mud
skippers are now repeating all over
again on their own account furthermore
when scientists examined the internal
organs of this strange creature they
discovered that it had the beginnings of
an air-breathing lung if any animal in
the world deserves the much used
expression
living fossil it's surely this
you